all right apparently we're live on
YouTube but usually takes a while to
actually connect so as I was just saying
general writing tasks one should not be
overlooked it is it is quite complex
just waiting for it to connect here come
on come on come on while it's doing that
feel free to ask any questions you may
have cool nice to see some familiar
faces in here come on YouTube connect me
connect me just says setting up your
webinar for YouTube live that's fine
that's fine that's fine Herman thanks
for your correspondence by the way
Herman what is a comment what is common
grammar that we can use to show off in
task one generally ok come and grammar
that you can use to show off it's not
necessarily about showing off I don't
think it's about showing off I'm going
to show you in this letter what I have
done and what I believe is deserving of
an IELTS nine and it's not so much that
I've used complex grammar or anything
like that I've just used pretty
straightforward grammar but I've just
done it accurately I've done it
precisely it's all about precision and
accuracy it's not yes you have to write
simple sentences in some complex
sentences that's fine but really what
you want to do is be accurate and be
precise what's the difference between
accuracy and precision accuracy means
that your grammar doesn't have any
mistakes in it like your verb tenses are
correct and you put the S on the end of
the now and if it's plural all that sort
of stuff precision is your ability to
express yourself flexibly do you have
the vocabulary and the grammar to
express ideas flexibly that's what
that's all
all right cool bananas I'm live on
YouTube that's fine so without further
preamble let's get started hi everyone
my name is jay i am one of the expert
teachers at e2 language comm I have
taken the IELTS but I have not taken
IELTS general nevertheless I know about
what you need to do in this lesson I'm
going to show you a formula in fact it's
a six step formula that you can apply to
any of your IELTS general writing tasks
one letters in this one we're going to
look at the informal letter so let's get
started so what's going to happen on
test day on test day this is what is
going to confront you this is what you
are going to see on your test paper
there's some superfluous information
here some information that's not
particularly important it just says
spend 20 minutes
write 150 words that's the rules and
then there's some information here what
we really want to look at though is this
thing here right smack bang in the
middle there's a scenario it has has
sort of two parts two important parts
this first part sets the background and
then you have three tasks to do right
let's just read this background
statement let's imagine that you're
taking the IELTS and you're sitting
there on that seat with the gray LED
pencil in your hand it says a friend who
lives in another country has invited you
to come and stay with him or her on your
next holiday you are too busy to accept
the invitation write a letter to your
friend and in your letter thank him for
the invitation
explain why you cannot come and ask him
or her about other times to visit fine
so we immediately can identify that
we're writing an informal letter simple
it says friend so there's a little bit
of vocabulary and grammar that will
change because this is informal but
largely we're going to follow a very
similar system or format
to a semi-formal or a formal letter fine
so what's the basic crux okay fine your
friends invited you to come overseas on
your next holiday and visit them but
you're too busy so you're just gonna
write back and thank them for the
invitation explain why you can't come
and then ask about other times to
possibly visit you've got to write 150
words and you got to do this in about 20
minutes we need to know what we're gonna
do cool let's have a look so IELTS nine
this is what we want to aim for we want
to aim for an IELTS nine even if we
don't quite get there that doesn't
matter let's aim for perfection
this I believe deserves an IELTS nine
whether it would get an IELTS nine is is
a different story because the IELTS
seemed to be particularly strict on
writing I actually don't really know if
it's possible to get an IELTS nine that
this letter that you're looking at has
perfect grammar excellent vocabulary
excellent structure and it is on topic
it has done all of those things that we
just looked at fine I'm gonna go into
depth with this but I'm going to show
you a six step method so you can write
one yourself
you'll notice that here in blue there
are six little numbers you can see here
we've got number one we've got a
greeting number two we have a reason for
writing number three we have some more
background information here we have
specific details and more information
here we have a request or a suggestion
in here we just have sorry we have three
parts here we have please let me know a
sign-off your friend your Sincerely
Yours faithfully in your name something
like that let's look closely at what
these are okay there's quite a bit of
this letter that you can memorize which
will help you you're not you can of
course you can't memorize the whole
letter and I don't want you to memorize
the whole letter because you would get a
very low score because IELTS examiner's
know if you've memorized a whole letter
but there are certain parts of the
letter that are always the same when we
write a letter in English we just use
these certain parts I'm going to show
you what they are and I want you to
memorize them
so the greeting the greeting fine we're
gonna memorize this dear Paul and
because it's an informal letter we just
use the first name of the recipient
we're gonna memorize some sort of ending
like please let me know you can memorize
that or I look forward to hearing from
you
something like that that's easily
memorize sign off your friend or your
sincerely or yours faithfully one of
those that's fine and of course you
should be able to remember eyes your
name
so in fact those four parts you can
memorize fine we've memorized this part
of the letter so what does that leave us
well it leaves us these three paragraphs
here in the middle we've got one here
one here and one here this is what the
letter is all about this is what the
letter is all about so but in fact we
can memorize some more because you can
actually each of those paragraphs serves
a particular function and as such we can
memorize a particular phrase or even a
sentence to start us writing to get us
going and this phrase we can use in all
of the letters because it serves the
same function let's look at them so as I
said before we're gonna mention the
reason for writing so we're gonna use
this phrase here I am writing to well we
need a verb so I'm writing to explain or
I'm writing to ask if you're asking
somebody to marry you who knows I'm
writing to provide you with directions
to my house these are just verbs this is
interchangeable that's the first phrase
you should memorize the second one is
when you explain in detail in paragraph
two let me explain my situation in more
detail you can memorize that entire
sentence and we're going to write one
later and I want you to use this
and the final paragraph is where you
request or you suggest so if you're
requesting you will use this one could
you verb object could you bring my
wallet to the party could you let me
borrow your car here we've got the verb
so bring or let or whatever and here's
the suggestion can I suggest that you
buy a new shirt whatever it is whatever
your suggestion is so you can memorize
these phrases as well and they serve as
prompts to get you going to jog your
memory to make you start writing and
you'll know you're on topic if you use
them so that's cool we're going to use
those in this lesson so in fact if we
look at our alt 9 essay you can see what
is memorized dear Paul I'm writing to
let me explain my situation in more
detail could you please let me know your
friend Jay fine look at that so really
you have three jobs in this letter first
job is to give a reason for writing and
provide some background information the
second paragraph you need to explain the
situation in more detail and the third
paragraph you request or suggest
something these are your three jobs give
a reason for writing and provide some
background information if you do that
you're on the money explain the
situation in more detail and then
request or suggest something that's it
that's what you have to do that's the
purpose of this letter fine let's look
at the greeting this is dead simple dear
Paul how do I know what read what
greeting to use well the task prompt the
question prompt will actually tell you
it says begin your letter as follows
dear hmm and because we're writing to a
friend we're just going to use their
first name dear Paul dear Anne dear John
dear Simon whatever it is so you have 30
seconds
no even less you
20 seconds to write your greeting please
and just choose a name anybody anybody
anybody's fine let me just check that
chat to see that you guys are doing your
whole I did jabe allergies gonna write
to me that's cool thanks you can write a
legs of me if you like that'd be nice
Richie dear J dear nish nish is gonna
write to himself or herself Julia's
gonna write to Maria maja boobs gonna
write to mr. James just write James
remember this is your friend
this is informal no need for any
salutations like mister or sir
nothing just first-name just on a
first-name basis I will slow down there
I'm probably speaking a little bit fast
thank you for that cool so we've written
out greeting whoops
you gotta look at this so the second
thing we do is we give a reason for
writing why are we writing this letter
I'm writing too that's your reason for
writing well what are we why are we
writing let's look at this scenario it
says a friend who lives in another
country has invited you to come and stay
with him or her on your next holiday you
are too busy to accept the invitation
write a letter to your friend in your
letter thank him or her for the
invitation so in fact what we're doing
what's the reason for writing well we're
actually turning down an invitation was
saying hey thanks to the invitation but
I can't make it let's just make it
simple though in this one my sentence
says this is mine I'm writing to thank
you for your invitation this one is
pretty common you may want to copy it or
you may want to write something similar
don't get too creative you can use a
different verb there if you want but
please write your first sentence which
is a reason for writing you have one
minute
ah cool let me have a look at that shirt
why are you writing
Maho bub I am this letter I am writing
this letter to let you know about the
invitation that you had sent for a stay
on my next holiday fine good a little
bit little bit incorrect I would say I'm
writing to let you know that I cannot
accept your invitation that would be a
nice way to do it Michaud I'm writing to
appreciate that you have invited me in
your home country okay that's fine let's
keep this sentence just short I'm
writing to appreciate not quite what's
another way to say this I'm writing to
show my appreciation
that's enough . i'm writing to show my
appreciation or give my thanks I'm
writing to give my thanks that's another
way to do it
Ruchi I hope you have to be know it
let's just start with the reason I am
delighted to see your invitation fine
that's enough let's keep this first
sentence short Balaji I'm writing to
thank you for inviting me to spend a
holiday period with you . that's the
ticket well done let's push on remember
this sentence keep it short just give a
reason for writing now we give some
background information okay so my
sentence says it's very kind of you but
unfortunately I won't be able to make it
due to my very hectic work schedule
where did I get this from well you'll
see in the background let's read it
again a friend who lives in another
country has invited you to come and stay
with him or her on your next holiday you
are too busy to accept the invitation so
write a letter to your friend blah blah
blah blah blah we've already said thank
you for the invitation now we give a
little bit of background information
well we can't come so I'm gonna write
this I'm writing to thank you for your
invitation
that's my reason now my background in
Meishan it's very kind of you but
unfortunately I won't be able to make it
due to my very hectic work schedule it's
been one minute adding to your reason
for writing give some background
information why you are busy or why you
cannot accept the invitation you have
one minute
and I should mention here we don't want
to go no details no details because in
the next paragraph we explain in detail
this one is just simply the broad reason
why we can't come and that is because
we're too busy cool let me check some of
these sentences excellent Herman
unfortunately comma I won't be able to
get there due to my deadline tasks in my
job or due to the deadlines due to my
job at deadlines great beautiful well
done
okay so par meet says I'm writing this
letter to thank you for your warm
invitation beautiful excellent but
unfortunately I will be busy at that
time because of my hip hectic job
schedule that's that's mine
but that's okay that's good I'm writing
to thank you for your invitation
because of my work schedule I won't be
able to make it fantastic ich pond I'm
just gonna you see a pond as that name
that's a long name maja Boyd
unfortunately I would not I cannot make
it as I have a production release of a
software that I am working on excellent
very creative Balaji unfortunately comma
I won't be available to enjoy my
holidays with you because I have an
important appointment with our family
doctor regarding my mum's health issue
now that's probably a little bit too
much detail and what you've done there
is in the next paragraph you have to
explain in detail so now you've sort of
put yourself in the corner because
you're going to have to write a
paragraph about your mum's health
problems which is possible but it's
better to keep this first part quite
broad and open because then in the next
paragraph you can write about anything
or just to say that my job's very busy
at the moment maybe it's not about that
maybe it's about a specific topic maybe
it's just simply easier to write about
why our jobs are busy or if you if you
medical English maybe that's a good idea
and you can talk about your mum's health
issues and and get into some medical
English that's fine actually Julia so
thank you for your invitation this idea
is exciting . however comma my work
commitment cannot make this possible
unfortunately well done misha thanks for
your kind invitation but due to my work
commitments or commitments singular
plural that's okay i wouldn't i am not
able to make it beautiful Prasanna this
was sweet of you however I'm afraid I
cannot accept your invitation as I am
down with a lot of work I have a lot of
work would probably a bit be a bit
better good well done so we've written
that first paragraph now we move on to
explaining the situation in detail let's
explain that situation in detail so this
is what I wrote and you can see that
what I mean about broad to specific so
all I did here was say unfortunately I
won't be able to make it due to my very
hectic work schedule okay fine now I'm
going to elaborate on this in this
paragraph here and I'm going to explain
in detail what I mean let me explain my
situation in more detail and I want you
guys to use this sentence because it's a
good opening sentence to use I've
recently started a new job teaching
English and I've been working around the
clock I don't mean to complain I've been
enjoying it immensely the school I'm
working out is actually my old high
school it's really quite interesting
teaching with people who used to be my
teachers fine so you have to be a little
bit creative and I drew upon my
experience of being an English teacher
and in fact I did teach at my old high
school where I was not the well good I
was good student
let's just say I was a little bit
naughty when I was a high school student
so it was very interesting going back
and teaching at my high school with the
other teachers who yeah anyway so I've
used my experience there so now what you
can do is draw upon your experience and
be creative I want you to write about
three good sentences here possibly a
short one and a couple of longer more
complex ones try to mix it up but that's
your job now I want you to do that so
let's have a look
so explain in detail in detail why you
cannot come
so that was mine now I want you to
explain in detail why you cannot join
your friend overseas I'm going to give
you three minutes because I want three
good sentences and really you're
focusing on this one here is the
critical one
minute and 30 seconds left explain in
detail why you can't come and be
creative use some nice language I'm just
gonna check the chat room fantastic
you guys are so fast you've already
written it that took you a minute and 20
seconds some of you that's incredible
really good and the more time you save
on writing task 1 by the way the more
time you can spend on writing task 2
which is worth a lot more fantastic let
me read some of these so Prasanna says
let me relate my situation in more
detail fine you can change it like that
we have recently taken up a new and
exciting project and I am the project
lead and as exciting as it sounds I have
many new responsibilities and challenges
ahead of me beautiful Herman please
allow me to describe my situation in
more detail I will have a technical
deployment for my clients software
update by next month I'm in AU a
software engineer by any chance
I'm very busy to prepare anything
I'm very busy preparing everything
including documentation . if you had
invited me earlier
good ok if you had have in if you had if
you had have invited if you had invited
me past perfect is fine actually well
done if he had invited me earlier I
would have postponed my agreement with
my client great ok I can see why you
wanted to know about showing off using
good grammar that's a beautiful sentence
well done Richie let me explain my
situation in more detail well one good
news is one piece of good news one good
thing is my company has got an
opportunity work on this important
project which in turn will benefit me in
my future career prospects fantastic
muhabba let me explain my situation in
detail I'm currently working on a new
website on a new web on the development
of a new website this website is going
live on the day that you have asked me
to stay with you and I'll be too busy on
that day I'm really unfortunate I'm
really disappointed to deny your
invitation for the aforementioned reason
guru it's a little bit formal with a
firm mention but that's fine
cool I won't go and read the rest but
they look good well done let's let's
let's get back to this okay five
requests or suggest we're going to write
this paragraph here just to recap I just
want to recap because it's good to recap
here we've got the greeting fine that's
easy right we saw that it was informal
we just write dear Paul here we've got
the reason from writing I'm writing too
and then we put any old verb in here
thank you offer you a job whatever it is
and here we provide more background
information not specific not too many
details here just broad background
because then we get into a detailed
explanation here
and finally what are we doing here well
it depends on the task that you have
this one asks us ask him or her about
other times to visit so typically this
paragraph is going to be either you
request something in which case you're
asking about different times to visit
that's a request or you're suggesting
something it might have said tell your
friend to come and visit you and you
could say can I make a suggestion that
you visit me rather than request suggest
they're pretty similar anyway let's look
at my example it's gonna be one of those
two so request or suggest this is based
on this last task here and I've used
this phrase could you because this is a
request fine could you let me know of
another time you'll be free this is also
a question so we need a question mark
would love to come to stay I'm
interested in seeing your new house and
meeting your wife I'll be free in the
New Year because of school holidays and
I'll also be free in winter I'd
certainly love to escape the cold to
visit you then fine
what you'll notice by the way is a lot
of contractions I am I will I would is
another I will because this is an
informal letter we're okay to use
contractions like this that's fine it's
still relatively formal but that's okay
you could say can you could say can you
let me know or could you or you could
even say would you but perhaps that's a
little bit formal let's just stick with
could you so I want you to write a
paragraph now where you request you
request your friend to find out you want
to find out about other times to visit
and I also again want you to be a bit
creative right about three sentences
here perhaps you might use the phrase
could you let me know that's a good
phrase
so if this one we better write four
sentences because I'm worried about word
count let's push this one and write four
good sentences
while you're doing that I'm going to
have a look at this chat right did you
do okay so Bonnell is you've gone off
topic there you've asked your friend to
visit you but if I look at that prompt
it says ask him about other times to
visit him or her so we're not inviting
him to visit you we're asking him about
when's another good time that you could
visit him okay so make sure you write on
topic because the examiners will see
that difference excellent - Herman I
wonder if you're free during Christmas
break
I'll take along and you'll leave then
I'll take annual leave then from
December to January next year therefore
how about if we both take a cruise trip
to Thailand for several days I believe
would be fantastic could you make it
good has that gone off topic well just
be careful just make sure you stick to
the prompts
I believe the prompt is asking about
another time that you could visit your
friend Ruchi could you let me know when
you will be free post my project
delivery I'll be free after my project
delivery I'll be free for three weeks
when I can drop in at your place full
stop we can plan something exciting at
that time please do let me know if you
are ok with the proposed time I'm sure
we will make the most out of it good
well done Ritchie
Nishant can you please let me know no
comment necessary if we can plan some
other day to catch up with your family
question mark that starts with can you
need a question mark it's a question
I'll bring my wife with me to your place
and arrange a BBQ party at a nearby farm
to your house
very creative fine maja Bob
we meet another day no comment necessary
when we both are available question mark
good I would love to come to stay with
you and enjoy your mum's food I'm eating
food outside these days and I am
desperate for home food home-cooked food
we can visit the scientific and research
library near your home but I always
wanted to visits for so long let me know
you're comfortable comfortable time I
kind of a bit odd let me know your
available times and we can align
ourselves for a peaceful and great time
okay some interesting adjectives in
there that's good
cool well done so we've just written the
request or the suggestion the last thing
that we write is the ending the sign-off
in your name this is dead simple please
let me know another one because you're
writing to a friend could be I hope or
no not I hope to hear from you you will
I look forward to hearing from you this
is a classic one I look forward to
hearing from you and I think I found the
reasons why my teachers were just like
me in high school maybe because my
handwriting is so terrible I look
forward to hearing from you your friend
or yours
yours truly or warm best regards best
wishes whatever you want to do that's
fine you can do that one so please write
the ending sign off and your first name
and let me check that chat Hermann asked
can we use this sentence for all
scenarios I look forward to hearing from
me yes that's a good one well done that
actually can apply for formal semi
formal and informal I look forward to
hearing from you
that's fine great I look forward to
seeing you soon sis budgie Miss Jean
says let me know what you will decide
about our next our next meeting Ritchie
says I look forward to hearing from you
Prasanna asked can we sign off with love
, Prasanna yes yep that's fine
Ritchie says best wishes Michonne says
with love which he says with love ma
haboob says I look forward to meeting
you soon by the way talking about love
if you're on YouTube please click like
leave a nice comment and think about
subscribing that's a good way to spread
the love cool looking good that's easy
nice so that's how you sign off so what
does the full letter look like after
you've written it it looks like this
dear Paul I'm writing to thank you for
your invitation then we provide some
background information so what have we
done let's just quickly recap what we've
done we've written a greeting that's
fine
first name because it's informal then
we've written the reason for writing and
we've used this phrase I'm writing to
verb I'm writing to ask if you want to
come to my wedding I am writing to
provide you with the details of my
address whatever then you give a little
bit of background information based off
that question prompt it's very kind of
you but unfortunately I won't be able to
make it due to my very hectic work
schedule so we've gone very broad here
very broad and then what we do is we go
into more detail here with number four
we give detailed explanation write
detailed explanation then we request or
we suggest could you then we just sign
off this by the way I think mine was 150
three words you better check yours
because they scan they scan your
document after you write it so it has to
be more than 150 words even if you write
the most beautiful letter known to man
if it's 149 words you will lose points
you may want to count individual words
it wouldn't take that long cool well
done we flew through that that was great
why would this receive an IELTS 9 why
would this letter receive an IELTS 9
well there are four things that the
examiner looks for in your writing first
that you wrote on topic that you wrote
about that question prompt and those
three points and you did not write about
something else and we saw that question
prompt number the bullet point three
asked you to invite no no what did it do
you had to ask your friend about other
available times you did not invite your
friend to see you okay so follow those
bullet points exactly don't write off
topic there to use precise vocabulary
use accurate grammar number three use a
logical structure number four let's look
at them in detail right on topic so did
we do this did we thank your friend for
the invitation yes I'm writing to thank
you for the invitation and then we added
a little bit of this stuff here did we
explain why you cannot come yes in
detail then did we request other times
to visit your friend yes cool so we've
written on topic uh-oh what's gonna
happen here I'm gonna lose my PPT I knew
it let me go back
we gave the reason for writing in the
background information in the first
paragraph then we explained in detail
then we requested or suggested something
fine did we use precise vocabulary and I
use this word precise precisely because
it's easy to use big fancy words but are
they precise
it's much better to use a simple precise
word than a complex imprecise word okay
whatever you do you just have to be
precise let me show you what I mean
about vocabulary vocabulary is not
necessarily single words vocabulary can
be something like this very kind so here
we have an adverb here we have an
adjective so this is a like a
combination this is a nice adverb here
unfortunately here we've got a nice
phrase or again an adverb adjectives
very hectic work schedule got a noun
phrase in more detail
that's a nice prepositional phrase
working around the clock that's just a
cool phrase what about this one really
quite interesting oh and here we've got
another adverb immensely would love to
come to stay I'd certainly love so you
can see that there's a variety of
vocabulary in there a lot of them though
of phrases we're not really that
interested in just using single words
we're interested in using good
collocations or word combinations that
are natural sounding that's what it's
all about cool so we've got the
vocabulary fine whoops I think I've
missed something
no grandma grandma let's look at these
verbs verbs are critical they're in
every sentence we need to make sure
they're right first of all we have a
contraction I am I'm writing thank
simple present it is a contraction but
also the simple present I won't be we've
got a negative simple present here
explain simple present fine I have
started or what have we got here we've
got a present perfect verb what about
I've been working well we've got a
present perfect continuous verb I do not
mean to complain we've got a negative I
won't to keep writing we've got a
negative simple present I have been
enjoying again a present perfect
continuous I am working present
continuous is
used to let me know that's an imperative
would love to come to stay that's a
crazy one I'm interested we've got a
passive one we've got
I'll also be free we've got a future one
here we've got we've got a modal verb I
would love I would love and let me know
so a letter is full of verbs we've used
probably mainly simple present but we've
also used some present perfect a couple
of future ones present perfect
continuous but we haven't just used
verbs to show off we've used verbs to
express an idea as clearly as possible
and we had to use that particular verb
to express the idea that's what it's all
about if you can do that you're on the
road to success
what about articles and nouns well here
we've got a noun invitation that's fine
situation details singular nouns ah job
so we've got an article here I've
started a new job nonspecific
nonspecific acne job English with a
capital e cool the clock this is just a
phrase the school I'm working at is my
old high school so we're talking about a
precise verb here a specific one so we
used our teachers plural not teacher
teachers people plural holidays plural
the new year phrase here and here we've
got escaped the cold it's a phrase in
winter no article here and there you go
what else have we got
we've got adverbs and adjectives for
example we've got the word kind we've
got an adverb
unfortunately hectic is a nice adjective
more as a pretty simple one new as a
simple one recently is pretty simple
immensely is an interesting month
old is a simple one but that's fine I'm
expressing an idea another free new free
I probably could have been a little bit
more creative with my adjectives to be
honest I could have thought a little bit
more about synonyms I've used I've
probably used new and old and free a
little bit too too many times so I might
look at that before I submit it and
change those I don't really need to
because all of the other vocabulary is
great so that's fine but something you
may want to think about prepositions
these are critical for success away as
well I writing to thank you fine kind of
you able able to make it fine my
situation let me explain my situation in
more detail around the clock working at
teaching with people let me know of
because of there are probably more in
winter there you go there's another one
in winter so we've got our prepositions
right very important they're small
they're hard to detect but they're
important what about sentence structures
because if we want to achieve an IELTS
nine or at least get a high score we
can't just write simple sentences and we
also can't just write long complex
sentences what we need to do is we need
to have a four right and variety what am
I trying to say here we need to have
both types you need to have both types
so have a look at this so this is a this
is what would be a simple sentence fine
this is a complex sentence you'll see
because it's connected through this
thing here this little connecting device
it's very kind of you
oh we've got to but unfortunately I
won't be able to make it due to my very
hectic work schedule here we've got a
simple sentence here we've got a complex
sentence I've recently started a new job
teaching English and
I've been working around the clock so
that subject-verb-object
subject-verb-object here we've got a
simple sentence with a semicolon and
another simple sentence following it
what about this one a complex sentence
it's really being quite interesting
teaching with people who used to be my
teachers so we've got a coordinating
thing here yes I won't go into much more
detail with that in short what you need
to do is is have two types of sentences
some short ones some long complex ones
if you're unsure about long and complex
stick with short and simple better to be
precise and accurate than to be
inaccurate and imprecise okay all right
nearly there nearly there nearly there
what are we doing so last thing why
would this letter get an IELTS nine
because we've used a logical structure
and this is what you need to remember if
you want to get a high IELTS writing
score
remember the greeting I'm writing to
which is the reason for writing the
alarm is about to go off in my office
give me one second to two to turn this
off hold on
we've just avoided the alarm so that's
good all right what was I saying ah
right yes yes yes right let me start
again
let me start again so we've got the
greeting here here number two the reason
for writing three some background
information from the background bit
there nothing too specific no details
just background then in number four we
start to build our paragraph and we
explain in detail the situation and we
use this phrase here you can use that
copy that exactly or you can change it
slightly for the reason we use this one
I'm writing too and this is a verb next
paragraph the third paragraph is the
request or the suggestion we might use
could you or can you or would you if
we're going to suggest something we'd
say can I make a suggestion
or can I suggest that for example and
then we just simply have the sign-off
and your name etc down here that's
critical you did not see a word of that
because you're looking at me the whole
time I'm sorry I'm gonna edit this video
so you can watch this again let me go
through again greeting reason for
writing background information explain
in detail request or suggest sign-off
they are the six steps to success on
this letter that's the kind of logical
flow that you need to create that my
friends is the end of that presentation
if you have any questions please put it
into the chat
can you please share your screen yes
ma haboob can we write shortened words
like I'd won't etc yes because it's
informal you're writing to a friend you
can include the called contractions like
instead of saying I am I am could have
could've so use the apostrophe say
that's fine
Herman greeting sign off and our name
does it count to the word count oh I am
unsure Herman can you please find out
and email me I had I I don't know does
anybody know Julia J could it be
possible that sincerely is out of date
news use rarely in emails now ok just
between you and me this letter that your
first of all who writes letters its 2017
we write emails also who writes letters
with a pencil lastly who writes letters
to bank managers yes it's out of date
it's absolutely out of date but
unfortunately that's the task that you
have to do so any other questions what
about YouTube what's happening on
YouTube
cool Olga's happy there well done no
problem good face el-sheikh is very
happy with the way I teach that's good
thanks appreciate it if you do like the
way I teach and like these things please
click like and leave a comment makes me
feel good I like reading nice comments
bright she knows so says what if I don't
want to use contractions would there be
a penalty yes
not much of a penalty but this is
informal writing so you
should use contractions cool all right
what else we got I think that's all
thanks very much I appreciate your
coming along I hope that was helpful if
you need help by the way check out a two
language comm sign up get some tutorials
get some feedback on your writing we've
got lots and lots of video lessons we've
got everything you need not just writing
but also speaking and listening and
reading and grammar and pronunciation
the whole shebang so do check out the
website thanks very much I'll see you
guys soon